welcome to the men of recaps this is
arrow season 5 in season 5 Oliver Queen
is now the mayor of star city but at
night he still puts on the hood and
beats up bad guys team arrow is now just
him in Felicity who finally gets her own
superhero name
overwatch his sister Thea is done with
the vigilante life she's now his
full-time mayoral chief of staff and
John Diggle quit to to rejoin the army
for some reason there's a couple new
vigilantes in town that team arrow could
recruit but Oliver doesn't play well
with others but when a new crime boss
Tobias Church takes over all of her
admits it's good to have some backup so
meet the new team arrow Renee Ramirez
his wild dog he's the renegade that
doesn't follow orders
you remember Curtis he's already half on
Team arrow helping Felicity with
computer stuff but now he goes out in
the field as mr. terrific there's a
teenage girl Evelyn who they briefly
call Artemis and Ragman weirdest of all
it's thought he was a villain at first
but turns out he's just a kid with an
ancient magical suit of rags but Ragman
has to use his rags to stop a nuclear
bomb it works but it does destroy the
suit so he's out there's another
vigilante whose name is just vigilante
he doesn't join the team because he
likes to kill bad guys it's a very
daredevil Punisher thing more on him
next season pretty soon John Diggle
comes back there's a corrupt general
tried to frame him for stuff and
Oliver's got to break him out of prison
it's a whole thing
and also coming back is Laurel Lance I
told you no one stays dead on this show
apparently she was rescued by the
legends of tomorrow cuz they're doing
all sorts of time-travel stuff but turns
out the truth is even crazier
she's the super villain black siren
laurels evil doppelganger from the
parallel earth - you can blame the flash
for that one he gets into all sorts of
multiverse shenanigans in fact remember
John diggle's daughter Sara
well he's now his son John jr. cuz the
flash messed with the timeline on the
big crossover event this season they
fight aliens I'm not even gonna get into
that in any case even Laurel makes it
clear that she's bad to the bone no
chance of a Redemption arc at least not
till next season by the way good laurels
father Quentin Lance is off the wagon
he's drinking again after Laurel died
belongs to a short Thea convinces him to
sober up and they make him deputy mayor
now there is a girl on this earth who
got the Black Canary screen power it's
bad assets
cop Dinah Drake she and her partner were
undercover in Central City when the arc
reactor exploded giving her superpowers
long story short the arrow recruits her
and they've got a new black canary so
Oliver gets all these new recruits
trained up and now team arrow is pretty
huge working together they take down
Tobias Church no problem but turns out
the real villain this season is
Prometheus the cleaner his mom his beef
with the arrow is personal his father
was one of the corrupt businessmen that
Oliver killed in season one and turns
out Evelyn is working for him she blames
green arrow for her parents deaths or
something so Prometheus lers arrow into
a trap and tricks him into killing a
police officer the one that's been
dating felicity
yapple Oliver is still broken up and so
that's an awkward conversation
eventually we learned from me theses
identity
he's new District Attorney Adrian chase
who's actually been friends with Oliver
Oliver can't just take him down
prometheus is always ten steps ahead
he's got the city turned on the green
arrow for killing a cop and Plus in a
fight these two are evenly matched and
he's working with friends like Talia al
Ghul Ra's al Ghul's other daughter who
liked her father so she hates Oliver for
killing him chase captures all of her
and tortures him for a bit he doesn't
want to kill him he wants to break him
so he makes Oliver admit to himself that
he enjoys killing so now feeling totally
broken all of her disbands team arrow
and turns to an old friend Anatoly of
the Bratva we learned Oliver was part of
the Russian mob back in season one how
the heck did that happen anyway it's
time for an island flashback last season
he promised this girl that he would save
her village by killing some bad guy so
this season's Island flashbacks takes
place in Russia
Oliver meets up with his Russian best
friend Anatoly who he met on the prison
ship back on season 2 long story short
and it totally matches for him and all
of her joins the Bratva the guy he needs
to kill is konstantin Kovar played by
Dolph Lundgren but turns out this one
Bravo captain is working for Kovar so
Oliver finds himself in the middle of a
Bratva Civil War but now Oliver is fully
Jason Bourne John wick badass takes out
all the guys sometimes while wearing the
hood Cobar almost gasps is the Russian
government and takes over but Oliver
puts a stop
to that and kills him so now Oliver is
finally ready to go home
he has Anatoly drop him off back on Lian
Yu he's gonna pretend he was shipwrecked
here the whole time instead of being a
super spy The Epoch castaway Beauty has
was actually fake and so finally the
island flashbacks have caught up to
season one so in the present all of her
calls on the Bratva to kill Prometheus
in exchange he'll let them steal a bunch
of drugs or something but Diggle gives
Oliver one of his famous John Diggle pep
talks like hey maybe you shouldn't be in
the Russian mob so Oliver reneged on his
deal and quits the Bratva for good which
makes anatoly really mad meanwhile
Felicity makes a new friend it's a young
hacktivist just like she was she's part
of a super hacker group called helix and
she'll help Felicity get Prometheus in
exchange for Felicity helping helix
rescue their leader Kayden James more on
him next season and so they find the
evidence they need to put Adrian chase
away but turns out that's all part of
his plan his friends on the outside
kidnap all of all of his friends
including his son William so to keep
them safe Oliver's gotta break Adrian
out of prison and let him get away now
anytime Thea's in danger you know who
shows up it's Malcolm Merlyn he's still
real mad at Oliver for cutting off his
hand last season but he's always down to
help Thea Oliver also calls in Nyssa al
Ghul who still technically his wife and
they fly off for the final showdown on
Lian Yu
Oliver recruits another old enemy here
mother-effing slade wilson
he's had a long time now to sober up
from his mirakuru madness he apologizes
for killing Oliver's mom and stuff so
Slade Wilson's a good guy again god I
love him together they rescue all of his
friends and he and Felicity start
smooching full Oliver's back on Thea has
a complicated relationship with her
father she mostly hates him cuz he's
evil but when she steps on a landmine
Merlyn knocks her off and takes her
place he stays behind so they can get
away and blows himself up
no Merlyn yeah don't cry I don't believe
for one second that he's gonna stay dad
if nothing else he can always cameo on
legends of tomorrow then the al Ghul
sisters have an al Ghul duel long story
short Nyssa wins so Oliver's rescued
everyone except for his son
where there's my son so they have their
final showdown on a boat where he has
william captive now prometheus is crazy
his whole thing is that he wants all of
her to kill him
to prove that he's a killer but he's
rigged explosives to go off when he dies
covering the entire island so Oliver has
to choose between all of his friends and
family or the son that he barely knows a
difficult dilemma to be sure but Oliver
cheats by shooting from atheists in the
foot
smart move that would have worked but
Prometheus shoots himself and boom all
of Lian Yu explodes killing everyone on
the show and that's how season 5 comes
to an end
[Music]